ALFRED_SETUP.md, before:

# Alfred - AI Assistant for Slack and Linear

A proof-of-concept AI assistant built with Next.js, Mastra, and MCP (Model Context Protocol) that helps you manage Slack messages and Linear tickets.

## Features

- 🤖 AI-powered assistant named Alfred
- 💬 Chat interface using AI SDK React components
- 📱 Slack integration via MCP (using [korotovsky/slack-mcp-server](https://github.com/korotovsky/slack-mcp-server))
- 📋 Linear integration via MCP (using [jerhadf/linear-mcp-server](https://github.com/jerhadf/linear-mcp-server))
- 🎨 Modern UI with shadcn components
- ✨ Instrument Sans (body) and Instrument Serif (header) fonts
- 🔧 Dynamic tool discovery from MCP servers

## Setup

### Prerequisites

1. Node.js and pnpm installed
2. Slack tokens (xoxc/xoxd or xoxp token)
3. Linear API key

### MCP Server Setup

#### Slack MCP Server

The Slack MCP server is a Go binary. You have a few options:

1. **Download the binary** from [releases](https://github.com/korotovsky/slack-mcp-server/releases)
2. **Use Docker**: `docker pull korotovsky/slack-mcp-server`
3. **Build from source**: Follow instructions in the [repository](https://github.com/korotovsky/slack-mcp-server)

#### Linear MCP Server

The Linear MCP server runs via npm/npx and will be automatically installed.

### Environment Variables

Create a `.env.local` file in the project root:

```env
# Slack MCP Configuration
# Option 1: Using xoxc/xoxd tokens (browser tokens)
SLACK_MCP_XOXC_TOKEN=xoxc-your-token-here
SLACK_MCP_XOXD_TOKEN=xoxd-your-token-here

# Option 2: Using xoxp token (OAuth token)
# SLACK_MCP_XOXP_TOKEN=xoxp-your-token-here

# Optional: Custom command if binary is not in PATH
# SLACK_MCP_COMMAND=/path/to/slack-mcp-server
# SLACK_MCP_ARGS=--port 13080

# Linear MCP Configuration
LINEAR_API_KEY=your-linear-api-key-here

# Optional: Custom command (defaults to npx)
# LINEAR_MCP_COMMAND=npx
# LINEAR_MCP_ARGS=-y linear-mcp-server
```

### Getting Slack Tokens

You can extract Slack tokens from your browser:
1. Open Slack in your browser
2. Open Developer Tools (F12)
3. Go to Application/Storage → Cookies → `https://app.slack.com`
4. Find cookies: `d` (xoxd token) and look for `xoxc` in localStorage or network requests

Alternatively, use OAuth to get an `xoxp` token.

### Getting Linear API Key

1. Go to your Linear workspace settings: `https://linear.app/YOUR-TEAM/settings/api`
2. Create a new API key
3. Copy the key to your `.env.local` file

### Installation

```bash
pnpm install
```

### Running the Development Server

```bash
pnpm dev
```

Visit `http://localhost:3000/alfred` to access the Alfred assistant.

## Usage

Once the app is running and MCP servers are connected, you can ask Alfred:

- **Slack:**
  - "What unread messages do I have in Slack?"
  - "Show me messages from the #general channel"
  - "Search for messages about 'deployment'"
  - "List all channels"

- **Linear:**
  - "What are my current tickets in Linear?"
  - "Show me high priority issues"
  - "Search for issues assigned to me"
  - "Create a new issue for bug fixing"

## Available MCP Tools

### Slack Tools (from slack-mcp-server)
- `conversations_history` - Get messages from channels/DMs
- `conversations_replies` - Get thread replies
- `conversations_search_messages` - Search messages with filters
- `channels_list` - List all channels
- `conversations_add_message` - Post messages (disabled by default)

### Linear Tools (from linear-mcp-server)
- `linear_search_issues` - Search issues with filters
- `linear_get_user_issues` - Get issues assigned to a user
- `linear_create_issue` - Create new issues
- `linear_update_issue` - Update existing issues
- `linear_add_comment` - Add comments to issues

## Architecture

- **Frontend**: Next.js 15 with React 19
- **AI Framework**: Mastra with AI SDK integration
- **UI Components**: shadcn/ui
- **MCP Integration**: @modelcontextprotocol/sdk
- **Fonts**: Instrument Sans (body), Instrument Serif (headers)
- **Dynamic Tool Discovery**: Tools are discovered from MCP servers at runtime

## Project Structure

```
src/
├── app/
│   ├── alfred/
│   │   ├── page.tsx          # Main Alfred UI
│   │   └── layout.tsx        # Layout without RootLayout wrapper
│   └── api/
│       ├── alfred/
│       │   └── route.ts      # API route for Alfred agent
│       └── mcp/
│           └── init/
│               └── route.ts  # MCP initialization
├── components/
│   └── ui/                   # shadcn components
├── mastra/
│   ├── agents/
│   │   └── alfred.ts         # Alfred agent (dynamic tool discovery)
│   ├── mcp/
│   │   ├── client.ts         # MCP client manager
│   │   └── init.ts           # MCP initialization logic
│   └── tools/
│       └── mcp-tool-wrapper.ts # Dynamic MCP tool wrapper
└── fonts/
    └── setup.ts              # Font configuration
```

## How It Works

1. When the Alfred agent is first accessed, it:
   - Initializes MCP servers (Slack and Linear) based on environment variables
   - Discovers available tools from each MCP server
   - Creates Mastra Tool wrappers for each MCP tool
   - Initializes the agent with all discovered tools

2. When a user asks a question:
   - The agent analyzes the request
   - Selects appropriate MCP tools to use
   - Calls the tools via MCP protocol
   - Formats and returns the results

## Notes

- MCP servers need to be running and accessible for the tools to work
- The Slack MCP server uses stdio transport
- The Linear MCP server runs via npx and uses stdio transport
- Tools are discovered dynamically, so new tools added to MCP servers will be automatically available
- Make sure your Slack tokens and Linear API key have the necessary permissions

Commit message:

Refactor: Use official Linear SSE MCP server
Updates documentation and code to use the official Linear SSE MCP server instead of the local npx version. This includes changes to environment variables, configuration, and client transport.

Co-authored-by: kehinde <kehinde@getkepler.com>

ALFRED_SETUP.md, after:

# Alfred - AI Assistant for Slack and Linear

A proof-of-concept AI assistant built with Next.js, Mastra, and MCP (Model Context Protocol) that helps you manage Slack messages and Linear tickets.

## Features

- 🤖 AI-powered assistant named Alfred
- 💬 Chat interface using AI SDK React components
- 📱 Slack integration via MCP (using [korotovsky/slack-mcp-server](https://github.com/korotovsky/slack-mcp-server))
- 📋 Linear integration via MCP (using [jerhadf/linear-mcp-server](https://github.com/jerhadf/linear-mcp-server))
- 🎨 Modern UI with shadcn components
- ✨ Instrument Sans (body) and Instrument Serif (header) fonts
- 🔧 Dynamic tool discovery from MCP servers

## Setup

### Prerequisites

1. Node.js and pnpm installed
2. Slack tokens (xoxc/xoxd or xoxp token)
3. Linear API key

### MCP Server Setup

#### Slack MCP Server

The Slack MCP server is a Go binary. You have a few options:

1. **Download the binary** from [releases](https://github.com/korotovsky/slack-mcp-server/releases)
2. **Use Docker**: `docker pull korotovsky/slack-mcp-server`
3. **Build from source**: Follow instructions in the [repository](https://github.com/korotovsky/slack-mcp-server)

#### Linear MCP Server

Linear provides an **official MCP server** that uses SSE (Server-Sent Events) transport. This is the recommended way to use Linear with MCP.

### Environment Variables

Create a `.env.local` file in the project root:

```env
# Slack MCP Configuration
# Option 1: Using xoxc/xoxd tokens (browser tokens)
SLACK_MCP_XOXC_TOKEN=xoxc-your-token-here
SLACK_MCP_XOXD_TOKEN=xoxd-your-token-here

# Option 2: Using xoxp token (OAuth token)
# SLACK_MCP_XOXP_TOKEN=xoxp-your-token-here

# Optional: Custom command if binary is not in PATH
# SLACK_MCP_COMMAND=/path/to/slack-mcp-server
# SLACK_MCP_ARGS=--port 13080

# Linear MCP Configuration (Official SSE Server)
LINEAR_ACCESS_TOKEN=your-linear-access-token-here
# OR use LINEAR_API_KEY (will be used as access token)
# LINEAR_API_KEY=your-linear-api-key-here

# Optional: Custom URL (defaults to https://mcp.linear.app/sse)
# LINEAR_MCP_URL=https://mcp.linear.app/sse
```

### Getting Slack Tokens

You can extract Slack tokens from your browser:
1. Open Slack in your browser
2. Open Developer Tools (F12)
3. Go to Application/Storage → Cookies → `https://app.slack.com`
4. Find cookies: `d` (xoxd token) and look for `xoxc` in localStorage or network requests

Alternatively, use OAuth to get an `xoxp` token.

### Getting Linear Access Token

For the official Linear MCP server, you need a Linear access token:

1. Go to your Linear workspace settings: `https://linear.app/YOUR-TEAM/settings/api`
2. Create a new Personal API Key
3. Copy the key to your `.env.local` file as `LINEAR_ACCESS_TOKEN` (or `LINEAR_API_KEY`)

The official Linear MCP server uses SSE transport and is hosted at `https://mcp.linear.app/sse`.

### Installation

```bash
pnpm install
```

### Running the Development Server

```bash
pnpm dev
```

Visit `http://localhost:3000/alfred` to access the Alfred assistant.

## Usage

Once the app is running and MCP servers are connected, you can ask Alfred:

- **Slack:**
  - "What unread messages do I have in Slack?"
  - "Show me messages from the #general channel"
  - "Search for messages about 'deployment'"
  - "List all channels"

- **Linear:**
  - "What are my current tickets in Linear?"
  - "Show me high priority issues"
  - "Search for issues assigned to me"
  - "Create a new issue for bug fixing"

## Available MCP Tools

### Slack Tools (from slack-mcp-server)
- `conversations_history` - Get messages from channels/DMs
- `conversations_replies` - Get thread replies
- `conversations_search_messages` - Search messages with filters
- `channels_list` - List all channels
- `conversations_add_message` - Post messages (disabled by default)

### Linear Tools (from official Linear MCP server)
The official Linear MCP server provides comprehensive tools for managing Linear issues. Available tools are discovered dynamically and may include:
- Issue search and filtering
- Issue creation and updates
- Comment management
- Team and project management
- And more (discovered automatically)

## Architecture

- **Frontend**: Next.js 15 with React 19
- **AI Framework**: Mastra with AI SDK integration
- **UI Components**: shadcn/ui
- **MCP Integration**: @modelcontextprotocol/sdk
- **Fonts**: Instrument Sans (body), Instrument Serif (headers)
- **Dynamic Tool Discovery**: Tools are discovered from MCP servers at runtime

## Project Structure

```
src/
├── app/
│   ├── alfred/
│   │   ├── page.tsx          # Main Alfred UI
│   │   └── layout.tsx        # Layout without RootLayout wrapper
│   └── api/
│       ├── alfred/
│       │   └── route.ts      # API route for Alfred agent
│       └── mcp/
│           └── init/
│               └── route.ts  # MCP initialization
├── components/
│   └── ui/                   # shadcn components
├── mastra/
│   ├── agents/
│   │   └── alfred.ts         # Alfred agent (dynamic tool discovery)
│   ├── mcp/
│   │   ├── client.ts         # MCP client manager
│   │   └── init.ts           # MCP initialization logic
│   └── tools/
│       └── mcp-tool-wrapper.ts # Dynamic MCP tool wrapper
└── fonts/
    └── setup.ts              # Font configuration
```

## How It Works

1. When the Alfred agent is first accessed, it:
   - Initializes MCP servers (Slack and Linear) based on environment variables
   - Discovers available tools from each MCP server
   - Creates Mastra Tool wrappers for each MCP tool
   - Initializes the agent with all discovered tools

2. When a user asks a question:
   - The agent analyzes the request
   - Selects appropriate MCP tools to use
   - Calls the tools via MCP protocol
   - Formats and returns the results

## Notes

- MCP servers need to be running and accessible for the tools to work
- The Slack MCP server uses stdio transport (local process)
- The Linear MCP server uses SSE transport (remote server at https://mcp.linear.app/sse)
- Tools are discovered dynamically, so new tools added to MCP servers will be automatically available
- Make sure your Slack tokens and Linear access token have the necessary permissions
- The official Linear MCP server requires authentication via Bearer token in the Authorization header
